Plato: What is true?
Socrates: The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing.
Plato: Is life worth living?
Socrates: The unexamined life is not worth living.
Plato: Can you please teach me?
Socrates: I cannot teach anybody anything. I can only make them think
Plato: What is the difference between good and evil?
Socrates: There is only one good, knowledge, and one evil, ignorance.
Plato: Why are people bad?
Socrates: Be kind, for everyone you meet is fighting a hard battle.
Plato: How are you so wise?
Socrates: Wonder is the beginning of wisdom.
Plato: What differentiates people?
Socrates: Strong minds discuss ideas, average minds discuss events, weak minds discuss people.
Plato: How can I find my identity?
Socrates: To find yourself, think for yourself.
Plato: Why must I learn?
Socrates: Education is the kindling of a flame, not the filling of a vessel.
Plato: Should I get married?
Socrates: By all means marry; if you get a good wife, you’ll become happy; if you get a bad one, you’ll become a philosopher.
Plato: Why do I feel unfulfilled?
Socrates: He who is not contented with what he has, would not be contented with what he would like to have.
Plato: Should I make friends?
Socrates: Be slow to fall into friendship, but when you are in, continue firm and constant.
Plato: How do I make the suffering end?
Socrates: If you don't get what you want, you suffer; if you get what you don't want, you suffer; even when you get exactly what you want, you still suffer because you can't hold on to it forever. Your mind is your predicament. It wants to be free of change. Free of pain, free of the obligations of life and death. But change is law and no amount of pretending will alter that reality.
Plato: How do I know when someone cares about me?
Socrates: Sometimes you put walls up not to keep people out, but to see who cares enough to break them down.
Plato: What is wrong with our youth?
Socrates: The children now love luxury; they have bad manners, contempt for authority; they show disrespect for elders and love chatter in place of exercise. Children are now tyrants, not the servants of their households. They no longer rise when elders enter the room. They contradict their parents, chatter before company, gobble up dainties at the table, cross their legs, and tyrannize their teachers.
Plato: Why is the human body so incredible?
Socrates: No man has the right to be an amateur in the matter of physical training. It is a shame for a man to grow old without seeing the beauty and strength of which his body is capable.
Plato: What is happiness?
Socrates: The secret of happiness, you see, is not found in seeking more, but in developing the capacity to enjoy less.
Plato: What is true?
Socrates: Know thyself.
Plato: How do I change the world?
Socrates: Let him who would move the world first move himself.
Plato: How do I get rich/wealthy?
Socrates: Contentment is natural wealth, luxury is artificial poverty.
Plato: What is our greatest blessing?
Socrates: Death may be the greatest of all human blessings.
Plato: How do I gain wisdom?
Socrates: Employ your time in improving yourself by other men's writings so that you shall come easily by what others have labored hard for.
Plato: Is death a bad thing?
Socrates: The hour of departure has arrived, and we go our separate ways, I to die, and you to live. Which of these two is better only God knows.
Plato: What is good and evil?
Socrates: The only good is knowledge and the only evil is ignorance.
Plato: How do I get people to like me?
Socrates: Do not do to others what angers you if done to you by others.
Plato: Where are you from?
Socrates: I am not an Athenian or a Greek, but a citizen of the world."
Plato: Are consequences real?
Socrates: Every action has its pleasures and its price.
Plato: How do I gain more wisdom?
Socrates: I examined the poets, and I look on them as people whose talent overawes both themselves and others, people who present themselves as wise men and are taken as such, when they are nothing of the sort.From poets, I moved to artists. No one was more ignorant about the arts than I; no one was more convinced that artists possessed really beautiful secrets. However, I noticed that their condition was no better than that of the poets and that both of them have the same misconceptions. Because the most skillful among them excel in their specialty, they look upon themselves as the wisest of men. In my eyes, this presumption completely tarnished their knowledge. As a result, putting myself in the place of the oracle and asking myself what I would prefer to be — what I was or what they were, to know what they have learned or to know that I know nothing — I replied to myself and to the god: I wish to remain who I am.We do not know — neither the sophists, nor the orators, nor the artists, nor I— what the True, the Good, and the Beautiful are. But there is this difference between us: although these people know nothing, they all believe they know something; whereas, I, if I know nothing, at least have no doubts about it. As a result, all this superiority in wisdom which the oracle has attributed to me reduces itself to the single point that I am strongly convinced that I am ignorant of what I do not know.
Plato: WHy are you not wealthy?
Socrates: Prefer knowledge to wealth, for the one is transitory, the other perpetual.
Plato: How do I improve my wife?
Socrates: We cannot live better than in seeking to become better.
Plato: When is it okay to be ignorant?
Socrates: We can easily forgive a child who is afraid of the dark; the real tragedy of life is when men are afraid of the light.
Plato: Is doing too much good?
Socrates: Beware the barrenness of a busy life.
Plato: How can I be more inquisitive?
Socrates: understanding a question is half an answer
Plato: Is wanting worse than getting?
Socrates: Life contains but two tragedies. One is not to get your heart’s desire; the other is to get it.    
Plato: Is love true?
Socrates: The hottest love has the coldest end.
Plato: What damages the soul?
Socrates: Envy is the ulcer of the soul.
Plato: How do I become better?
Socrates: Be as you wish to seem.
Plato: Is gluttony a sin?
Socrates: Thou shouldst eat to live; not live to eat.
Plato: When does one know ones intelligence level?
Socrates: I know that I am intelligent, because I know that I know nothing.
Plato: What is wisdom?
Socrates: True wisdom comes to each of us when we realize how little we understand about life, ourselves, and the world around us.
Plato: How do I become true?
Socrates: The greatest way to live with honour in this world is to be what we pretend to be.
Plato: What is death?
Socrates: To fear death, gentlemen, is no other than to think oneself wise when one is not, to think one knows what one does not know. No one knows whether death may not be the greatest of all blessings for a man, yet men fear it as if they knew that it is the greatest of evils.
Plato: Where does hate come from?
Socrates: From the deepest desires often come the deadliest hate.
Plato: How can I relate to people?
Socrates: Be nicer than necessary to everyone you meet. Everyone is fighting some kind of battle.
Plato: What are your thoughts about women?
Socrates: Once made equal to man, woman becomes his superior.
Plato: How can I become a better human?
Socrates: My friend...care for your psyche...know thyself, for once we know ourselves, we may learn how to care for ourselves
Plato: How can I learn something new?
Socrates: If you want to be a good saddler, saddle the worst horse; for if you can tame one, you can tame all.
Plato: Can wisdom be gained?
Socrates: The beginning of wisdom is the definition of terms.
Plato: What is beauty?
Socrates: I pray Thee, O God, that I may be beautiful within. 
Plato: Can one become a philosopher without wisdom?
Socrates: If a man comes to the door of poetry untouched by the madness of the Muses, believing that technique alone will make him a good poet, he and his sane compositions never reach perfection, but are utterly eclipsed by the performances of the inspired madman.
Plato: How should I treat people?
Socrates: One should never do wrong in return, nor mistreat any man, no matter how one has been mistreated by him.
Plato: Is my reputation important?
Socrates: Regard your good name as the richest jewel you can possibly be possessed of -- for credit is like fire; when once you have kindled it you may easily preserve it, but if you once extinguish it, you will find it an arduous task to rekindle it again. The way to a good reputation is to endeavor to be what you desire to appear.
Plato: How can I live a meaningful life?
Socrates: The really important thing is not to live, but to live well. And to live well meant, along with more enjoyable things in life, to live according to your principles.
Plato: How can I make the world a better place?
Socrates: The easiest and noblest way is not to be crushing others, but to be improving yourselves. 
Plato: Why do bad things happen to us?
Socrates: If all our misfortunes were laid in one common heap whence everyone must take an equal portion, most people would be content to take their own and depart.
Plato: What is wealth?
Socrates: He is richest who is content with the least, for content is the wealth of nature.
Plato: What is human nature?
Socrates: In all of us, even in good men, there is a lawless wild-beast nature, which peers out in sleep.
Plato: Why should we be nice to people?
Socrates: Those who are hardest to love need it the most.
Plato: What is knowledge?
Socrates: I only know that I know nothing
Plato: What is the greatest gift of mankind?
Socrates: The greatest blessing granted to mankind come by way of madness, which is a divine gift. 
Plato: What is true?
Socrates: Is it true; is it kind, or is it necessary?
Plato: What is knowledge?
Socrates: All I know is that I do not know anything
Plato: Why has our youth been corrupted?
Socrates: Children nowadays are tyrants. They contradict their parents, gobble their food, and tyrannise their teachers.
Plato: I am scared of existance.
Socrates: Be of good cheer about death, and know this of a truth, that no evil can happen to a good man, either in life or after death.
Plato: What is faithfulness?
Socrates: Think not those faithful who praise all thy words and actions; but those who kindly reprove thy faults.
Plato: Is marriage worth it?
Socrates: My advice to you is get married: if you find a good wife you'll be happy; if not, you'll become a philosopher.
Plato: I have no idea?
Socrates: Esteemed friend, citizen of Athens, the greatest city in the world, so outstanding in both intelligence and power, aren't you ashamed to care so much to make all the money you can, and to advance your reputation and prestige--while for truth and wisdom and the improvement of your soul you have no care or worry?
Plato: What will separate us in the afterlife?
Socrates: All men's souls are immortal, but the souls of the righteous are immortal and divine. 
Plato: How can I become more insightful?
Socrates: The highest realms of thought are impossible to reach without first attaining an understanding of compassion.
Plato: What is existance?
Socrates: To be is to do
Plato: Do we control our futures?
Socrates: The mind is everything; what you think you become
Plato: How do I find my purpose?
Socrates: I did not care for the things that most people care about– making money, having a comfortable home, high military or civil rank, and all the other activities, political appointments, secret societies, party organizations, which go on in our city . . . I set myself to do you– each one of you, individually and in private– what I hold to be the greatest possible service. I tried to persuade each one of you to concern himself less with what he has than with what he is, so as to render himself as excellent and as rational as possible.
Plato: What is text?
Socrates: I decided that it was not wisdom that enabled to write their poetry, but a kind of instinct or inspiration, such as you find in seers and prophets who deliver all their sublime messages without knowing in the least what they mean.
Plato: How do we change the world?
Socrates: To move the world we must move ourselves.
Plato: How do we reach excellence?
Socrates: I know you won't believe me, but the highest form of Human Excellence is to question oneself and others.
Plato: How do I gain success and notoriety?
Socrates: Virtue does not come from wealth, but. . . wealth, and every other good thing which men have. . . comes from virtue.
Plato: Why are connections/ people inportant?
Socrates: He who is unable to live in society, or who has no need because he is sufficient for himself, must be either a beast or a god.
Plato: How do we find the answers we seek?
Socrates: There is no solution; seek it lovingly 
Plato: How do I become pure?
Socrates: Through your rags I see your vanity.
Plato: How do we rid the world of evil?
Socrates: The misuse of language induces evil in the soul
Plato: How do we live a good life?
Socrates: Not life, but good life, is to be chiefly valued.  
Plato: Is wisdom related to how we carry ourselves?
Socrates: To know thyself is the beginning of wisdom.
Plato: How do I become more insightful?
Socrates: Wisdom begins in wonder.
Plato: Is accepting our wrongs the key to moving on?
Socrates: It is better to change an opinion than to persist in a wrong one.
Plato: Why can't I find what I seek?
Socrates: When you want wisdom and insight as badly as you want to breathe, it is then you shall have it.
Plato: How does God guide people for his cause?
Socrates: God takes away the minds of poets, and uses them as his ministers, as he also uses diviners and holy prophets, in order that we who hear them may know them to be speaking not of themselves who utter these priceless words in a state of unconsciousness, but that God himself is the speaker, and that through them he is conversing with us. 
Plato: How do I make change in the world?
Socrates: The secret of change is to focus all of your energy not on fighting the old, but on building the new.
Plato: What separates people?
Socrates: Smart people learn from everything and everyone. Average people from their experiences. Stupid people already have all the answers.
Plato: What is wisdom?
Socrates: Wonder is the beginning of wisdom.
Plato: Who am I?
Socrates: To find yourself, think for yourself.
Plato: How do we become satisfied with life?
Socrates: He who is not contented with what he has, would not be contented with what he would like to have.
Plato: What is intelligence?
Socrates: I know that I am intelligent because I know that I know nothing.
Plato: What makes a friend valuable?
Socrates: There is no possession more valuable than a good and faithful friend.
Plato: What are intelligent questions?
Socrates: Life is full of questions. Idiots are full of answers.
Plato: Is questioning life the answer to life?
Socrates: Understanding a question is half an answer.
Plato: How do I become better?
Socrates: Be as you wish to seem.
Plato: Is wealth good?
Socrates: He is rich who is content with the least; for contentment is the wealth of nature.
Plato: How can I gain wisdom?
Socrates: Employ your time in improving yourself by other men’s writings so that you shall gain easily what others have labored hard for.
Plato: What is knowledge?
Socrates: Education is the kindling of a flame, not the filling of a vessel.
Plato: Do we define our own consequences?
Socrates: Every action has its pleasure and its price.
Plato: How can I be better?
Socrates: No man has the right to be an amateur in the matter of physical training. It is a shame for a man to grow old without seeing the beauty and strength of which his body is capable.
Plato: When is a friendshsip true?
Socrates: Sometimes you put walls up not to keep people out, but to see who cares enough to break them down.
Plato: How can I improve my current situation?
Socrates: Remember, no human condition is ever permanent.
Plato: How can I become brave?
Socrates: I call myself a peaceful warrior because the battles we fight are on the inside.
Plato: How can I cause change?
Socrates: The value of a man is measured in the number of those who stand beside him, not those who follow.
Plato: How to be better?
Socrates: The mind is everything; what you think you become.
Plato: How can I improve as a person?
Socrates: Know thyself